Feat create new metric explanation (#8088)
appwrite/appwrite: CONTRIBUTING.md

| functions | Total number of functions per project             |
| deployments | Total number of deployments per project           |
| deployments.storage | Sum of deployments storage per project (in bytes) |
| builds | Total number of builds per project                |
| builds.storage | Sum of builds storage per project (in bytes)      |
| builds.compute | Sum of compute duration per project (in seconds)  |
| {functionInternalId}.builds.storage | Sum of builds storage per function                |
| {functionInternalId}.builds.compute | Sum of compute duration per function (in seconds) |
| {resourceType}.{resourceInternalId}.deployments | Total number of deployments per function           |
| {resourceType}.{resourceInternalId}.deployments.storage | Sum of deployments storage per function           |
| executions | Total number of executions per project |
| executions.compute | Sum of compute duration per project (in seconds) |
| {functionInternalId}.executions | Total number of executions per function  |
| network.requests | Total number of network requests per project |
| network.inbound | Sum of network inbound traffic per project |

> | network.outbound | Sum of network outbound traffic per project |

Reviewer: Can you group the `total` metrics together and the `sum` metrics together?

> | network.outbound | Sum of network outbound traffic per project |

Reviewer: Also mention the unit of this metric ( like bytes )

* The curly brackets in the metric name act as placeholders and will be replaced with a value.

Metrics are collected into 3 scopes: Daily, monthly, and infinity. Adding new usage metrics to aggregate usage stats is simple but depends on whether you want to collect the statistics via API or background worker. Here are the steps needed for both cases:

For both cases, add a const variable in `app/init.php` under the usage metrics list:

> * The curly brackets in the metric name acts as a placeholder and will be replaced with a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We already mention this above

metrics are collected to 3 scopes :
Daily, monthly, an infinity.
Adding new usage metrics in order to aggregate  usage stats is very simple but very much depends on where do you want to collect
the statistics(API or via background worker).

> Here are the steps needs to be taken in both cases:

Reviewer: This is a duplicate

> For both cases you need to add a const variable in app/init.php under the usage metrics list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Also duplicate

```php
// Usage metrics
const METRIC_FUNCTIONS  = 'functions';
const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS  = 'deployments';
const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS_STORAGE  = 'deployments.storage';
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next follow the appropriate steps below depending on whether you're adding the metric to the API or the worker.
```

**API**

> On file  app/controllers/shared/api.php  in database listener, add to an existing or create a new switch case. Add a call to the usage worker with your new metric const like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On file  `app/controllers/shared/api.php`  in database listener, add to an existing or create a new switch case. Add a call to the usage worker with your new metric const like so:
```

```php
      case $document->getCollection() === 'teams':
            $queueForUsage
                ->addMetric(METRIC_TEAMS, $value); // per project
            break;
```

> There are cases when you need to handle metric the is a parent entity, like buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are cases when you need to handle metric that has a parent entity, like buckets.
```

Files are linked to a parent bucket, you should verify you remove the files stats when you delete a bucket.

In that case you need also to handle children removal using addReduce() method call.
```php
 case $document->getCollection() === 'functions':
            $queueForUsage
                ->addMetric(METRIC_FUNCTIONS, $value);
  if ($event === Database::EVENT_DOCUMENT_DELETE) {
                $queueForUsage
                    ->addReduce($document);
            }

>             break;

Reviewer: Since you are talking about files and buckets above, maybe you can give an example relating to files and buckets

```

> On top of that also adding logic on the usage worker located in /src/Appwrite/Platform/Workers/Usage.php,  on the reduce method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you also need to add some logic to the `reduce()` method of the Usage worker located in `/src/Appwrite/Platform/Workers/Usage.php`.
```

```php

> private function reduce(Document $project, Document $document, array &$metrics, callable $getProjectDB): void

Reviewer: This function doesnt have a body?

| executions | Total number of executions per project |
| {functionInternalId}.executions | Total number of executions per function  |
| files.storage | Sum of files storage per project  (in bytes)      | 
| deployments.storage | Sum of deployments storage per project (in bytes) |
| {resourceType}.{resourceInternalId}.deployments.storage | Sum of deployments storage per function (in bytes)         |
| builds.storage | Sum of builds storage per project (in bytes)      |
| builds.compute | Sum of compute duration per project (in seconds)  |
| {functionInternalId}.builds.storage | Sum of builds storage per function (in bytes)              |
| {functionInternalId}.builds.compute | Sum of compute duration per function (in seconds) |
| network.requests | Total number of network requests per project |
| executions.compute | Sum of compute duration per project (in seconds) |
| network.inbound | Sum of network inbound traffic per project (in bytes)|
| network.outbound | Sum of network outbound traffic per project (in bytes)|

> Note: The curly brackets in the metric name represents a template and is replaced with a value when the metric is processed.

> Metrics are collected within 3 scopes Daily, monthly, an infinity.
> Adding new usage metric in order to aggregate usage stats is very simple, but very much dependent on where do you want to collect
> statistics ,via API or via background worker.
> For both cases you will need to add a const variable in `app/init.php` under the usage metrics list.
> 
> ```php
> // Usage metrics
> const METRIC_FUNCTIONS  = 'functions';
> const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS  = 'deployments';
> const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS_STORAGE  = 'deployments.storage';
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics are collected within 3 scopes Daily, monthly, an infinity. Adding new usage metric in order to aggregate usage stats is very simple, but very much dependent on where do you want to collect
statistics ,via API or via background worker. For both cases you will need to add a `const` variable in `app/init.php` under the usage metrics list using the naming convention `METRIC_<RESOURCE_NAME>` as shown below

```php
// Usage metrics
const METRIC_FUNCTIONS  = 'functions';
const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS  = 'deployments';
const METRIC_DEPLOYMENTS_STORAGE  = 'deployments.storage';
```
```
